welcome everyone to this week's IPL the
weekly sinkhole with this today it's a
crowded meeting yeah as every week we go
through the stuff that we've done and
then discuss any additional items we
might have I actually have one this week
it's already down in the notes and yeah
so let's get started first of all list
is Michael hey yep yeah so um the main
thing I wrote last week it was a very
shortly that the holidays was this
scripts that will take of CSV pull it in
and then generate an IPL be schema for
the data it basically looks at like all
of the values and then figures out what
types they should be and if they're
optional or not and in some cases even
figures out like if they need to be a
union there's the syntax in CSB is for
uh there's this crazy sometimes es fees
for doing like arrays of things and so
that actually like points to yeah anyway
like it figures on that outs here and
that uncovered some issues that we have
in some of our parser some of our best
practices are actually assumed in our
parsers right now so we need to back
some of that stuff out um for instance
you actually can't use underscore in
names of things and you have to
capitalize them and stuff like that and
when you're working with somebody else's
data and all you want to do is like
point have all the references be the
same so you point back to the original
data without bunching it up too much it
becomes quite beneficial to just keep
the original names with underscores
rather than trying to you know camelcase
them so yeah that's cool using the notes
much stuff writing some parsers for open
datasets and I feel D right now so
that's where a lot of that stuff was
coming from and the other thing is that
Ron wrote this really great browser
testing channel called Paul Andina
so I've been slowly porting certain
tests stuff over to that so I think the
block API moved to it and I just merged
a full request from rod moving the codex
to get codec library to it as well
that's all I got cool next one on the
list is so similarly holidays contrary
to what I had previously planned though
in the other days of the week I kind of
did a bunch of Doc's work we started
getting some more external asks about
Doc's lately or maybe I just started
noticing more who knows and will cry I'm
sure you're going to talk about this
chance to file coin stuff was related
but we need more Doc's I started to do
some more Doc's I haven't gone into and
a hand combat with our website which I
think we should do at some point but I
don't currently know where that is I
don't know what like activation energy
barriers will need to be overcomes to
deliver the first step of value there so
this week I just filled out some missing
gaps and the go Docs
there are some big ones like the node
interface which is kind of the most
central thing in the universe have no
Doc's on it they had lots of Doc's than
methods but no like why is this here so
started trying to fix things like that
so there's some progress there I've also
been trying to kick a little more work
in on the code jam prototypes and trying
to specifically make sure that I can
write what needs to be written for the
memory amortizations stuff that I've
been in searching for Alana I'm pretty
sure is above in the go runtime don't
want to talk about it but otherwise
things seem to be going well it's
complex enough that I'm writing like a
prototype by hand rather than writing
the code run for it in the first draft
and
so far so good a couple of things that
turned out a little more verbose and
less shared code than I expected so
still maybe iterating on a couple of
those things but it's really coming
along and keeping lots and lots of notes
and reading it for like why this design
well that's going to be from archeology
someday that's right
[Music]
thank you mix my list is myself I didn't
do that much i poly related stuff I
mostly foreign stuff and there was a
meeting with oh yeah which was related
to 5/9 ILD and there as Eric said come
up some documentation issues we should
get better yeah but as I said nothing
that much any related stuff so far yeah
so f for all other ones it through where
if I told you what 1% on five coins if I
don't it's so next one on my list is rot
a feel free to M tell us about before
you type it in yeah okay
give a scattershot week browser testing
library as Michael mentioned Poland inna
like in the the notes using that in a
bunch of places and it's kind of
refreshing to be able to just say does
this thing work in the browser without
having to do tons of setup so that's
that's been an interesting thing now and
trying to integrate into my workflow
I'll go back and and look at things that
I intended to work in the browser that
now I know either don't or don't her are
not easily variable so
that's a good addition I think the other
two things were some little 'some schema
stuff for Michael for CSVs Eric I pinged
you in a a change to the schema past
JavaScript's he came in Gaza for passing
names so we're allowing I wasn't
allowing lowercase first characters in
names but now we are because Michael
wants to burn down the world and the
change I added also it because I was I
wasn't checking also the names of what
was it properties so properties could
begin with numbers or underscores and I
don't think we cover that in the spec so
like struct fields and enum values I
don't think we cover in spec what they
can what the character limitations are
there so I just applied the same rules
which is must begin with a character and
then can contain letters or numbers and
underscores so even that's in there for
now and we can tweak later if somebody
comes along and says I need underscores
is a first character but we'll see so
any other thing was the thread sorry who
entreated Michael the zip zip car file
they're putting live data sets into zip
files because the JavaScript thing I
wrote for that was not really the
original use case was not for large
files it was for putting blocks in it
for mainly test fixtures that could be
portable across runtimes
and because we're thinking about using
them for larger data sets I did some
work on investigating in JavaScript
particularly how easy it would be to
make it more efficient there are some
trade-offs in doing so I
I did some of that work and it seems to
be okay I could make a streaming
interface without too much pain I've got
I've got used to completely separate
libraries for read and write apparently
we can't have all the good things in one
place but I think there's some
trade-offs in browser compatibility but
browser testing again it's one of those
things I wasn't doing beforehand so I
need to add that as a first-class thing
because I would like to have test
fixtures that I can include in the
browser as well when I'm testing stuff
so you know test zip file full of blocks
would be nice to be able to put that in
a browser environment and extract the
blocks and do the tests on stuff in
there so that was one of the intentions
of those those files so anyway that's
that's pretty much the main things that
I'm working on thank you um does anyone
else from the other folks have any
updates or want to say something if not
I just I just start what I'm still
setting accounts yeah okay glad you have
a zoom account okay so I have one more
item which came up today actually it's
more of a question for what probably
because we currently have hemp
spec for IP LD and there used to be an
alternative hemp spec that is used in
psycho and I wonder if the IP LD one is
a superset of the far econ one or if
there's any differences or like if
really god are you aware of any income
in incompatibilities or should it be
comparable rodriram you telling me now
they're really close basically there was
just some disagreements about first was
naming so far calling being a being
obsessive about names being like one
character and mine was was a little bit
more verbose like my daughter away array
was called data whereas I think in that
one it's called D or something like that
and the the other thing was they didn't
want to include any hampt parameters in
the route block because they know the
context and they know what the parameter
is going to be and I disagreed that you
need to include that and we never we
never had a way of reconciling that
although there was some proposals for
how to reconcile that but they are
they're really close and if somebody
wanted to if it was important to
reconcile them we probably could but
yeah but but you could read the ham
speck that I wrote and then look at the
one that file coins using and it would
be pre pretty much the same I think
they're even using the bits bit
sequencing thing that I wrote for
pulling out indexes from sequences of
bits so it's it's it's very similar
pretty much the same algorithmically
just some differences in the way that
they are encoding because far coin likes
to be yeah obsessive about certain
things that don't think it quite that's
important but anyway if we wanted to
reconcile them would it just be a matter
of in the schema adding defaults to
bunch of the parameters and then adding
an alias birthday didn't be would that
be effectively all that we needed to do
well if they're not aliases those of us
that was the MIS name or a misnomer
about that property it wasn't an alias
it was a rename so we would have to
adopt a name so we would have to adopt
their name their their names for
properties I can't I'm not sure exactly
what they weren't I think I think in
like in the key value array they had
like uppercase and lowercase or
something really strange too so
there was some weird discrepancies that
I just couldn't get behind but the best
thing about the rename feature ends the
schema though is that like as far as
you're concerned when you're using like
the types that get generated from the
schema you can still use data as a
keyword it just isn't getting encoded of
D so yeah it would be you know we'd get
all the benefits anyway and I mean I'm
fine I'm having their default either be
folks I mean they're probably relatively
from for the defaults for a use case if
we're gonna have defaults at all yeah
the fact is we don't we don't have good
data on what best defaults are so I
think if they see they've chosen fairly
reasonable ones on actually they've
chosen ones that are efficient for
mutate well theoretically efficient for
the mutation so I think they're doing
something like branching factor of 32
which which leads to really small blocks
a lot of really small blocks and then
the leaf blocks I think are potentially
larger so I actually disagree with the
branching factor of 32 but without data
to say it's not a great choice I'm not
willing to assert that very strongly so
willing to let file coin do some
experimentation there and figure out
whether it's actually any good when you
say small blocks what does small blocks
mean within Europe so yeah this this is
an IP LD thing and I guess in my PFS
thing - but blocks being the unit that
we encode in hash so we identify blocks
as the hashable addressable thing that
contains the data and then your path
within the block great I asked what do
consider small you said a lot of small a
little yeah so so for a branching factor
of 32 all of these is 32 C IDs so we're
looking at we're looking at you know 1.5
K bytes I'm like yeah yeah I mean like
it depends on how much data though right
like if you put more data in it blocks
the
Media notes are gonna get bigger no
they're not not in a hint because you
it's a branching factor so it's just the
advice for the next level and then and
then the leaves using buckets yeah and
if you're using buckets of the leaves
then you multiply that by the size of
the buckets and so you end up with these
really small intermediates and then
these large end ones the file coin case
though is like they're all putting it on
chain so it probably doesn't matter that
much the size of the blocks I think so
you're not you're not just pulling an
individual block and having to ship that
around the network you're doing I mean
in a chain so I think the the the the
requirements for size for file coin and
for any blockchain based application I
think it different to the way we think
about them when we're talking about
distributed applications where we're you
know sharing around these like if like
the NPM or package manager case where we
want to have a HAMP to address all the
packages you don't to have these tiny
blocks just to you know you don't want
to navigate down eight different blocks
just swap back and forth just to find a
package it'd be great to do three you
know so you have a higher branching
factor it looks slightly larger blocks
and so you the back and forth is more
efficient but when you're doing octane
you've got it all then it's a bit a
little bit more different use case also
I guess that the churn you return more
blocks but less data in terms of bytes
in terms of garbage collection through
mutation right that's the theory and
that's what Falcone's going with because
they mutating the what does it be actors
with map and it's going to be mutating a
lot the idea is because they're mutating
a lot they when you have a higher
branching factor you are it's
theoretically mutating less data total
and total but more blocks so instead if
you have a branching factor of 25 to 50
56 and you want to change one thing at a
root then you have to change larger
blocks so you copy an entire block and
just change one element of it
then you do that all the way up the
chain whereas if you've got 32 that
blocks Pfizer that you're changing a
smaller you're changing one element over
32 is a little bit more trivial than
then these huge blocks if I simply get
data to unlike what what the overhead is
and having individual blocks in terms of
GC rather than actual data because
there's something here is that like it's
actually relatively cheap to GC a bunch
of blocks rather than a lot of data and
I don't I don't know where that's coming
from
that's a lot of these and even what even
the way I talk about it it's based on
guesswork and we don't have data for
what the what the trade-offs are here I
started work on that I started doing
some research work on large data set
what what what is what are the
trade-offs when you have larger
branching factor for mutation and versus
smaller and then and then the trade-offs
for okay well block size because in some
cases block size matters because you
want to do network transfer and maybe
you don't have the latency problem so
you can do lots of small transfers or
maybe you've got high latency so bigger
blocks is better and then how many
blocked reversals because you bigger
blood branching factor
the fewer traversals to get to what you
need and so it would be nice to have
data on all of those things so that we
could say hey if you're gonna use this
thing then consider what your
application is and then and what your
environment is and then choose your
parameters based on these things that we
know and have measured about even then
we're missing a piece here though I
think we can probably work on an open
problem statement for research and I
think that it would even help us even if
we end up solving this problem just to
quantify more clearly but we need some
kind of way to talk about GC cost and
understand the different trade-offs in
that DC guy because one thing to say
yeah we have a data we want to submit
around rhythm but we don't even have
like that algorithm to shove that data
into
like we haven't actually quantified like
what what are whether the potential
overhead and having multiple blocks
during and like let's just scope at the
district garbage collection right so get
rid of like the replication concerns and
how much more complicated that can be
under certain replications needs to get
many blocks
she just talked about GC and the
complexity of GC and and where are these
different levers for takeoff because we
have nothing even approaching like a cap
theorem of this and we really need
something like that
Peter we're gonna yeah actually this the
problem statements Arabs put it is more
or less my work plan for the next
Siemens I quite literally well it's not
the entire three months but pretty much
most of January supposed to be taken by
figuring out what is acceptable for from
performance standpoint and I'm supposed
can like see what is available there is
in those test beds and if Nazca is
available to my own but figure out like
what is the cost of a lot of smaller
versus larger chains because kind of a
number of parameters in the study I have
been working on on the side you know
before a joint each parameter is
extraordinarily well over a very large
amount of outcomes right and actually
for for next meeting right I should have
the graphs ready on the data that I
already have actually have corpus of
over which I quite literally exhausted
all the possible permutations of all the
possible two numbers of this algorithm
specifically and it shows different
trade-offs in amounts and diverse sizes
and so on and so forth so if you guys
already have a pretty good like problem
statement if you can send me even like
thoughts the way the way I kinda put a
little more depth we kind of not sure
what X will do and we're not quite sure
why we'll do I'm also starting Ashley
from two
collecting his keys from other groups to
kind of know what to test across and
then pretty much the rest of like the
second half of December most Virginia
will spend exactly producing numbers for
predefined corpses of data based on
stuff they imagine that you mentioned
didn't slack that you were looking at
rabbin chunking as well I think Michaels
doing a lot of thinking about revin with
you know even exhibits me too definitely
in our area yeah I actually don't know
how it works with with work plants
whether they're kind of public or not
but if they are and I I don't know how
much of it I can take in place to you
guys yeah but but it basically it
basically comes from the standpoint of
like talk about streams specifically
like you have a stream of data what can
you do with it given what we know and
given what kind of streams of that we're
likely to encounter so it doesn't really
specifically talk about you know Lippett
appearance if you talk about ipfs file
coin but it can tries to keep all of
this in mind here there's a slightly
different dimension with the rabbin
chunking which is that there's an
efficiency gain in deduplication so it's
potentially and so it's just a little
bit different when you're thinking about
what the savings might be because if you
if you're spreading it over many files
and then you have this other vector that
kind of brings down the overall storage
cost but I think the thing that is very
much the same in that use case as an
earthen disturbed is that like the size
of the hash matters a lot right like if
you're creating max 1.5 blocks and
you've got a nerd okay
that's the you're referring to all those
blocks like you're you're really
increasing the amount of overall storage
right that's it because I mean they came
out the key value store also has to
store the keys and the intermediary
blocks have the keys Valley
at some point here like the whole
equation kind of inverts and you're not
saving like any suspected and and in the
Hampton in the hands like you you you're
pretty guaranteed you're just never
gonna happen to do application and this
week immediate notes anyway Walker yeah
I'd like to come because the meeting is
almost over I like to come back to the
original question from out and the hem
specs between if I own and I Polly and I
think it would make sense to kind of
like being as close as possible
so would it make sense that for example
if they use those we could use those
renames that they use or similar ones
and they change but basically having
those three names should be simple and
in regards to having the parameters in
the root blog I think it totally makes
sense finally but it could be that
basically there's a file content spec
which says well we are using basically
this I put this back but we don't store
the root in the pervious in the root
block but use fixed parameters like this
yeah Michael had an idea that I think
was worth exploring which was to push
the parameters up a container and so the
the root block was a container
underneath where you store the
parameters and whether that's a separate
block or within the same block but it's
a thing that you path to so you've got
the parameters and then you pass through
the root block and then the RHIB block
just is it just a and like every other
intermediate block is just a link an
array of of links that's one way to
solve it and then when fact when file
coin uses that they just start there and
when we want to use it any bid
parameters we start one level up I might
just you know what they could have been
more reconciliation work I just found it
really hard to engage with the file coin
folks because it's so busy and they they
move on so quickly and and they've got
their own needs and it's like it's like
a steamroller that just goes and so we
have the same thing with schemas and
their specs so if we if we can engage
and actually get some reconciliation
that would be really good okay I mean
also the more time that I spend with the
the types they get generated from the
schemas the the more that I actually
like this container approach because now
all of a sudden if I wanted to find
different default parameters I don't
have to go in like try to write a female
changes them or have some like weird off
thing that it's like resetting all of
these in the in the types I would just
essentially instantiate a type with a
bunch of data model that had all the
values in it and then one of the values
for the route block was the actual
decoded route block it makes it really
really easy to work with these and just
change out the defaults if you need to
or to set them sanely
if you want to have them kind of
universal and it makes it really easy to
refer to any hampt that has any
particular set of parameters by just
like taking the parameters encoding that
route block and then referring to it
right so yeah I feel like it gives us
kind of the best of both worlds all
right um is there anything else we
should discuss I did want to just round
out the discussion with Peter and just
mention them Michael mentioned cap
theorem but for Peter for your benefit
we we have this idea that we've been
circling around there is some kind of
cap like theorem for what we what we're
working on here where there are there's
a set of trade-offs that you make and
and you can't have everything
and so like it'll work well over the
network in high latency and storage and
GC and like there's all these factors
where you essentially have to make a
trade-off somewhere and that whatever
trade-off you make will depend on your
application environment and your
application itself and so what we'd
really like to eventually is to its
design in zoning on that and figure out
what that is and then be able to
communicate it and say look you will
have to make trade-offs but here are
your choices and here are the ones that
you can make depending on your
application so that that would be an
ideal to get to at some point with with
visualizations to come with them so all
right cool then I say goodbye to the
live stream and I feel free to stay for
the after party goodbye